Εισαγωγή

Αρχικά

SQLite is an in-process library that implements a self-contained, serverless, zero-configuration, transactional SQL database engine. 
The code for SQLite is in the public domain and is thus free for use for any purpose, commercial or private. 
SQLite is the most widely deployed database in the world with more applications than we can count, including several high-profile projects.

SQLite is an embedded SQL database engine. Unlike most other SQL databases, SQLite does not have a separate server process. 
SQLite reads and writes directly to ordinary disk files. 
A complete SQL database with multiple tables, indices, triggers, and views, is contained in a single disk file. 
The database file format is cross-platform - you can freely copy a database between 32-bit and 64-bit systems or between big-endian and little-endian architectures. 
These features make SQLite a popular choice as an Application File Format. Think of SQLite not as a replacement for Oracle but as a replacement for fopen()

SQLite is a compact library. With all features enabled, the library size can be less than 500KiB, depending on the target platform and compiler optimization settings. 
(64-bit code is larger. And some compiler optimizations such as aggressive function inlining and loop unrolling can cause the object code to be much larger.) 
There is a tradeoff between memory usage and speed. SQLite generally runs faster the more memory you give it.
Nevertheless, performance is usually quite good even in low-memory environments. Depending on how it is used, SQLite can be faster than direct filesystem I/O.

Βασικές χρήσεις

SQLite is not directly comparable to client/server SQL database engines such as MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL, or SQL Server since SQLite is trying to solve a different problem.

Client/server SQL database engines strive to implement a shared repository of enterprise data. 
They emphasize scalability, concurrency, centralization, and control. SQLite strives to provide local data storage for individual applications and devices. 
SQLite emphasizes economy, efficiency, reliability, independence, and simplicity.

SQLite does not compete with client/server databases. SQLite competes with fopen().
